so Farrell was asking about motivation
so I think Farrell that's a fantastic
question so I'll tell you guys I kind of
have to
- big approaches - like my own personal
motivation
so the first is to remember that if you
have an outcome orientation your
motivation is towards the outcome it's
towards the goal and the problem is that
if the outcome isn't what you want your
motivation is gonna go with it right so
if like my goal on a test if my goal is
to get an a on a test and I get an A
then I'm okay until the next test but
the problem is that if I ever get a B
like my motivation it's it's kind of
like building a house of cards and I see
this a lot actually in in you know when
I work with medical students is a lot of
like medical students have been at the
top of their class forever like they
were they were like at the top of their
class in high school got into good
colleges or at the top of their class in
college so they like get into a good med
school and I mean we see we work with a
lot of students but you know I most of
them are from Harvard and and so they're
very they really struggle when because
they've been like at the top of
everything so they really struggle when
they become average and so anytime that
you have an outcome oriented motivation
I feel like it's kind of like riding a
wave that's gonna crash at some point
and so what I really try to do is focus
on actions instead of outcomes and just
kind of stick with the action the other
huge thing if we think about the other
thing that I talk a lot about is is
Dharma and that's a big part of my
motivation so Dharma is a Sun script
word that means duty or responsibility
and in the Eastern religions they don't
really have kind of the standard idea of
morality in terms of like good and evil
they talk about like living and service
to your Dharma are not living in service
to your Dharma and I think a huge
advantage of living in service to your
Dharma and I'll explain what this means
is that it gives you a lot of tolerance
for suffering and in failure so I'll
give you guys just an example so let's
say that I'm walking down the street and
like someone points a gun at me
so when I look at that gun that gun
represents a lot of things like fear
pain death and those are all things that
I'm gonna want to retreat from right
like the gun represents everything that
I don't like in this world and I'm just
trying to run away from it as quickly as
possible so the gun represents a lot of
suffering so
our instinct as human beings is to move
away from negative emotions and from
suffering and if we think a lot about
what Farrell was talking about you know
she was encountering a lot of like
negativity at different points in her
life and her response was to protect her
ego was to kind of like move away from
that prospect of failure and then she
ends up kind of becoming stuck so that's
sort of that's how human beings respond
right like if someone points a gun at me
like I'm gonna try to run away or get
out of that situation however I can like
if the dude wants my wallet I'm gonna
give him the wallet I'm gonna hope that
he just leaves me alone now the funny
thing about that is that so that's
completely like understandable so now
let's say that I'm walking down the
street with my kid and someone points a
gun at my kid then what am i doing
suddenly I'm stepping into the path of
the gun right so the the gun means no
less death or pain or suffering but my
capacity to face that suffering and even
step into it like choose that suffering
is because I'm living in service to my
penguia so my first duty or my
responsibility is to my daughter so
because I'm living in service to that I
can actually tolerate immense amounts of
suffering and negativity and kind of
come out hopefully on the other side and
if I get shot I get shot but Dharma is
what lets me choose the hard path
because I'm doing it for a reason I'm
doing it in service to my Dharma so when
I talk to to gamers about sort of
figuring out what their motivation is
like they all talk about like wanting to
change but for what like they don't have
a reason they're like yeah I want to you
know I want to graduate from college why
so that I can get a good job why like
so I can be happy like what is having a
good job have it like it's all it's all
answers that they kind of it's like
hypothetical answers right like it's
like no one really knows like you can't
at so they're like okay so I can get
married and have kids one day you don't
understand the value of being like
married to a good person and having kids
until you've actually done it so a big
part of of what I try to help gamers do
is like discover their Dharma because
Dharma is what lets you tolerate the
difficulty like when I was in residency
near you do like 24 like 30 hour call
shifts like there were two attitudes for
my colleagues one is I just have to get
through it right and we heard that from
Farrell today it was all like I just
have to get through this period until I
get partnership it's like it I just have
to get through it that's actually not a
sustainable way to live your life that's
gonna lead to something called burnout
right like you're gonna you're gonna dig
deep and you're gonna get through it
you're gonna get through it you're gonna
get through it and then you end up burnt
out like you just don't have any energy
anymore your gas tank is empty so the
other thing is that I realized when I
was on call like in the ICU that I'm
gonna be a psychiatrist and you know one
day like this is honestly the thought
that I had I'm gonna be on a plane like
10 years from now and someone's they're
gonna like someone's gonna ring the
overhead speaker and they're gonna say
is there a doctor on the plane and then
I'm a psychiatrist but I can't
say no and then like I'm gonna I'm gonna
hit the button right so the the the
flight attendant is gonna come grab me
and then I'm gonna go see this dude
who's like is maybe having a heart
attack and then I have to know what to
do in that point like in that moment
depending on who I've become either I'm
gonna be able to save that person's life
or not save that person's life and so
that's my daughter my in that moment is
like that's gonna be my responsibility
right I'm the doctor on the plane I
can't tell them yeah man I'm sorry I
can't tell if you you are having a heart
attack or not I'm a psychiatrist and I
mostly talked to people about their
feelings like that doesn't work and so
when I'm in the ICU and I'm Ron my call
shifts I think to myself this is the one
year of my life that I'm gonna get to be
in this ICU and I better learn whatever
I can because at some point if somebody
needs my help like am I gonna be able to
help them or am I not going
be able to help them that's my Dharma
and so if you live your life trying to
get through it like I just have to make
it through I just have to make it
through like you're gonna burn out like
it's just not gonna work right and as
you burn out what happens is you have to
you're you need some kind of relief it's
like this
DHA RMA you it's just not gonna work and
the more burnt out you got the more you
need to rely on unhealthy coping
mechanisms like alcohol or video gaming
to like help you tolerate because when
your soul has been like wrung dry and
you're in the depths of your despair
what are you gonna do to make yourself
feel good you're gonna like load up
overwatch or dota or something
absolutely so I think it comes with
willingly and voluntarily accepting a
burden but we'll talk about that yeah
well we'll get to that so I was gonna
say something yeah so so just about
gaming so what happens is like then our
brain so when we feel that sort of like
spiritual burnout like where you're not
doing anything in life our brain seeks
refuge wherever it can right you want
that little tiny little dopamine surge
just so you can like make yourself feel
a little bit better and that's how you
end up gaming and so I think the
solution is to find your Dharma because
your Dharma is gonna be what lets you
tolerate tolerate and withstand and even
overcome as opposed to escape from
suffering and that's the biggest problem
gamers have is that they don't willingly
like they don't know how to tolerate
suffering they don't know how to like
step into things that are that are
difficult right to like say like okay
I'm gonna try to study as hard as I can
for this test and I have this idea that
I'm a smart person and if I don't do
well on the test that means I'm not a
smart person and that means I'm nothing
so instead what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna make a smurf account and roll all
over noobs because that makes me feel
good about myself
I can I don't want to play it at the
level that I'm actually at where other
people can own me
I want to I want to like stomp on noobs
all day so that I can preserve this idea
that I'm a good player right that's
that's the psychology of the gamer and
so the solution out of that is to find
your autonomy and so now like so so
spark was asking you know what's what's
your Dharma well so I would start with
this so take a piece of paper and write
down what you think is wrong with the
world and then like what happens as most
people do this and they're like there's
so much wrong with the world and then my
question them is okay so like did you do
it and then no one writes anything that
are like the problems too big and that's
why you don't find out what your Dharma
is on one sheet yeah start actually
write it down you'll be amazed you may
think that I can't fit all the problems
all the world's problems on one sheet of
paper of course you can't you can't fit
all the world's problems the question is
what's gonna be the first thing that you
write down what's gonna be the second
what's gonna be the third what's gonna
be the fourth then you'll begin to
realize what's important to you right
then you take a look at that piece of
paper and you you try to figure out okay
like what am I gonna do about this but
can you do something about it like you
got to do something like it if you don't
do something about it who's gonna do
something about it like let's talk about
climate change like you know we each
have to do our own part like what are
what are the things that matter to you
and so I would say so I think sparked
was sparked also asking like how you
book a session with me than him
whoop okay so I would say just start
with one piece of paper and write down
what you think is wrong with the world
and then ask yourself like what can I do
about this and that's I mean I think
that's where you got to start I think
there are also other things that you can
think a little bit about in terms of you
know like you can also think a little
bit about karma so karma is Karma but I
think about
I think about Karma's kind of being sort
of your circumstances so I think each of
us is given kind of a unique
circumstance in life so I think my
Dharma is heavily based on my Karma so I
the crazy thing is that you know I used
to think that there was growing up I
used to think that a 4.0 GPA is better
than 2.5 and there is no situation in
which I would want a 2.5 GPA instead of
a 4.0 GPA makes sense right like there's
no advantage to a 2.5 GPA except if
you're doing what I'm doing now which is
to talk to people who have 2.5 GPAs and
to say hey I know what it's like I've
actually been there and I came out on
the other side like I ended up not
getting into medical school for a while
but then I like I put my life together
and and now I'm like relatively happy
and successful and if I can do it you
can do it because the truth is that I'm
not amazing I'm actually you know I'm
above average but I'm not really like
that different from you guys which is
something that I've come to appreciate
more and more and that really if I can
do it you can do it and so when I look
at my life I see the garma of a 2.5 GPA
that was the circumstance that I was
given and then I had some amount of
training and things like that and then I
realized that like gamers need help and
I'm the guy who's around right so my
condolences but if you guys need help
like I'm I'm I'm what is like I'm the
dude who's there so it's my Karma so my
god am I like my circumstances my
playing a bunch of video games even now
I play video games
um and it's like it's my circumstance in
life to try to help you guys and those
are my circumstances and so my Dharma
and my karma related my circumstances in
life like if I was born a hundred years
ago helping people with technology
addiction and like streamers with the
stress of streaming that Dharma doesn't
make any sense back then so there are
some challenges that you yourself are
the only ones that can can do something
about and that's your turn